docs/contributing.rst, before:


Contributing to fortls
======================

There are a few ways you can support the ``fortls`` project.

Financial Support
------------------

You can support us financially by becoming a **GitHub Sponsor** or by
making a **PayPal Donation**.

.. grid:: 2
    :gutter: 0
    :class-container: sd-text-center sd-pt-4
    :class-row: sd-align-minor-center

    .. grid-item::
        .. button-link:: https://github.com/sponsors/gnikit
            :ref-type: ref
            :outline:
            :color: danger
            :class: sd-px-2 sd-fs-4

            Become a **Sponsor**
            :octicon:`mark-github;2em;sd-text-black`
            :octicon:`heart-fill;2em;sd-text-danger`

    .. grid-item::
        .. button-link:: https://www.paypal.com/paypalme/inikit
            :ref-type: ref
            :color: primary
            :class: sd-px-2 sd-fs-5

            Make a **Donation**
            :fa:`fa-paypal`


Contributing Code
-----------------

.. include:: ./../CONTRIBUTING.md
    :parser: myst_parser.sphinx_
    :start-line: 2

Commit message:

docs: tmp disable funding
Disable funding links until NumFOCUS
gets back to us.

docs/contributing.rst, after:


Contributing to fortls
======================

There are a few ways you can support the ``fortls`` project.

Financial Support
------------------

.. You can support us financially by becoming a **GitHub Sponsor** or by
.. making a **PayPal Donation**.

.. note::
    We are in the process of restructuring our Sponsorship structure.
    In the meantime, please get in contact with ``gnikit`` via email at
    ``gnikit [@] duck [.] com`` or any other `Administrator of Fortran-lang`_
    for instructions to financially back the project.

.. _Administrator of Fortran-lang: https://github.com/orgs/fortran-lang/teams/admins/members

.. .. grid:: 2
..     :gutter: 0
..     :class-container: sd-text-center sd-pt-4
..     :class-row: sd-align-minor-center

..     .. grid-item::
..         .. button-link:: https://github.com/sponsors/gnikit
..             :ref-type: ref
..             :outline:
..             :color: danger
..             :class: sd-px-2 sd-fs-4

..             Become a **Sponsor**
..             :octicon:`mark-github;2em;sd-text-black`
..             :octicon:`heart-fill;2em;sd-text-danger`

..     .. grid-item::
..         .. button-link:: https://www.paypal.com/paypalme/inikit
..             :ref-type: ref
..             :color: primary
..             :class: sd-px-2 sd-fs-5

..             Make a **Donation**
..             :fa:`fa-paypal`


Contributing Code
-----------------

.. include:: ./../CONTRIBUTING.md
    :parser: myst_parser.sphinx_
    :start-line: 2
